# Validator Nodes

Validator Nodes (VNs) function as the decentralized governance and truth layer of the <code>qognet</code> Mesh. Their role is to achieve network consensus on the integrity of the Defensive Signals generated by the Cognito Nodes (CNs), thereby ensuring trust and preventing false alarms or signal suppression.

## Primary Role

- **Signal Verification and Consensus:**
The VNs are exclusively responsible for verifying the authenticity and accuracy of the signals emitted by the CNs. This verification process is critical and subject to strict timing parameters:

- **Signal Integrity Check:** VNs verify the cryptographic signature of the Defensive Signal and cross-reference its metadata (time, source, and associated threat genome ID) against the general network state.

- **Consensus Threshold:** To achieve finality on a Defensive Signal, the network of VNs must reach a consensus of 67% Stake Weight within the designated Target Validation Time, which is set at 30 seconds.

- **Signal Finality:** Once the consensus threshold is met, the signal is considered finalized, recorded on the Qognet internal ledger, and instantly broadcast to all subscribed integration partners and BioFirewall instances.

## Operational Requirements and Rewards

### Operational Requirements
VN operators must provide a substantial $QOG token stake as high-risk collateral, maintain professional-grade hardware capable of sub-30-second cryptographic verification, and demonstrate a consistent track record of reliability to uphold the network's decentralized consensus and security finality.

### Acquisition
To acquire and activate a <code>qognet</code> VN, paticipants must obtain a specialized license through the QOG DAO, procure enterprise-grade hardware that meets the network's strict performance benchmarks, and commit the required minimum $QOG token stake to the collateral smart contract to initiate the node's formal onboarding into the network's finality layer.

### Consensus
VNs are bound and secured by a strict Proof-of-Stake (PoS) model.

<div style="display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap; gap: 1rem; margin-top: 1rem; margin-bottom: 1rem;">
  <a href="./Nodes%20Consensus%20Mechanism##proof-of-stake-and-economic-security" style="flex: 1 1 250px; padding: 1rem; border: 1px solid var(--vp-c-divider); border-radius: none; text-align: center; text-decoration: none; background-color: var(--vp-c-bg-soft);">
    <h4 style="margin: 0; border: none;">Nodes Consensus Mechanisms</h4>
  </a>
</div>

### Rewards
VNs receive a smaller, but highly secure, proportional share of the overall Proof-of-Defensive-Value (PoDV) reward pool (typically 15% - 20%), compensating them for their capital commitment and securing the final consensus layer.